*Enthusiastic, creative and sociable free spirits, who can always find a reason to smile.*
# Introduction

ENFP (Campaigner) is a personality type with the [Extraverted](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/energy-introverted-vs-extraverted), [Intuitive](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/mind-intuitive-vs-observant), [Feeling](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/nature-thinking-vs-feeling), and [Prospecting](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/tactics-judging-vs-prospecting) traits. These people tend to embrace big ideas and actions that reflect their sense of hope and goodwill toward others. Their vibrant energy can flow in many directions.

# Strengths

- **Curious** – People with the ENFP personality type (Campaigners) can find beauty and fascination in nearly anything. Imaginative and open-minded, ENFP personalities aren’t afraid to venture beyond their comfort zone in search of new ideas, experiences, and adventures. Moreover, their curiosity extends beyond simply seeking novelty. They also have a deep desire to understand how things work and why they are the way they are.
- **Perceptive** – To people with this personality type, no one is unimportant – which might explain how they can pick up on even the subtlest shifts in another person’s mood or expression. Because they’re so sensitive to other people’s feelings and needs, ENFPs can make full use of their caring, considerate nature.
- **Enthusiastic** – When something captures their imagination and inspires them, ENFP personalities want to share it with anyone who will listen. And they’re just as eager to hear other people’s ideas and opinions – even if those thoughts are wildly different from their own.
- **Excellent Communicators** – People with the ENFP personality type brim with things to say, but they can be caring listeners as well. This gives them a nearly unmatched ability to have positive and enjoyable conversations with all sorts of people – even people who aren’t particularly sociable or agreeable.
- **Easygoing** – ENFPs may live for deep, meaningful conversations, but they can also be spontaneous and lighthearted. These personalities know how to find fun and joy in the present moment – and few things give them more pleasure than sharing their joy with others.
- **Good-Natured and Positive** – All of these strengths come together to form a person who is warmhearted and approachable, with an altruistic spirit and a friendly disposition. ENFPs strive to get along with pretty much everyone, and their circles of acquaintances and friends often stretch far and wide.

# Weaknesses

- **People-Pleasing** – Most people with the ENFP personality type are uncomfortable with the prospect of being disliked. To maintain the peace, they may compromise on things that matter to them or allow others to treat them poorly. And when they fail to win someone over, they might lose sleep trying to figure out what to do about it.
- **Unfocused** – The thrill of a new project – especially one that involves collaborating with other people – can bring out the best in these personalities. But ENFPs are known for having ever-evolving interests, meaning that they may find it challenging to maintain discipline and focus over the long term.
- **Disorganized** – ENFPs’ focus on the big picture and their love for exploring new ideas and experiences can sometimes overshadow their attention to everyday practical matters. Specifically, people with this personality type may try to avoid the routine tasks that they view as boring like household chores, basic maintenance, or paperwork. The resulting sense of disorganization can become a major source of stress in their life.
- **Overly Accommodating** – ENFP personalities feel called to uplift others, and they may find themselves saying yes whenever anyone asks them for guidance or help. But unless they set boundaries, even the most energetic among them can become overcommitted, with too little time and energy to tackle the necessities of their own life.
- **Overly Optimistic** – Optimism can be among this personality type’s key strengths. But ENFPs’ rosy outlook can lead them to make well-intentioned but naive decisions, such as believing people who haven’t earned their trust. This trait can also make it difficult for these personalities to accept hard but necessary truths – and to share those truths with others.
- **Restless** – With their positive, upbeat attitude, ENFPs rarely seem upset or dissatisfied on the outside. But their inner idealism can leave them with a nagging feeling that some major areas of their life just aren’t good enough – whether that’s their work, their home life, or their relationships.