*Smart and curious thinkers who cannot resist an intellectual challenge.*
# Introduction

ENTP (Debater) is a personality type with the [Extraverted](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/energy-introverted-vs-extraverted), [Intuitive](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/mind-intuitive-vs-observant), [Thinking](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/nature-thinking-vs-feeling), and [Prospecting](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/tactics-judging-vs-prospecting) traits. They tend to be bold and creative, deconstructing and rebuilding ideas with great mental agility. They pursue their goals vigorously despite any resistance they might encounter.

# Strengths

- **Knowledgeable** – People with the ENTP personality type (Debaters) rarely pass up a good opportunity to learn something new, especially abstract concepts. This information isn’t usually absorbed for any planned purpose as with dedicated studying – they just find it fascinating.
- **Quick Thinkers** – ENTP personalities have tremendously flexible minds and are able to shift from idea to idea with little effort, drawing on their accumulated knowledge to prove their points, or their opponents’, as they see fit. In fact, ENTPs are the most likely personality type to quickly jump from one topic to another when they are enthralled in a conversation, never missing a beat.
- **Original** – Having little attachment to tradition, ENTP personalities are able to discard existing systems and methods and pull together disparate ideas from their extensive knowledge base to formulate bold new ideas. If presented with chronic, systemic problems and given rein to solve them, they respond with unabashed glee.
- **Excellent Brainstormers** – Nothing is quite as enjoyable to people with the ENTP personality type as analyzing problems from every angle to find the best solutions. Combining their knowledge and originality to splay out every aspect of the subject at hand, rejecting without remorse options that don’t work, and presenting ever more possibilities, ENTPs are irreplaceable in brainstorming sessions.
- **Charismatic** – People with the ENTP personality type have a way with words and wit that others find intriguing. Their confidence, quick thought, and ability to connect seemingly separate ideas in novel ways create a style of communication that is charming, even entertaining, and informative at the same time.
- **Energetic** – When given a chance to combine these traits to examine an interesting problem, ENTP personalities can be truly impressive in their enthusiasm and energy, having no qualms with putting in long days and nights to find a solution.

# Weaknesses

- **Very Argumentative** – If there’s anything ENTPs enjoy, it’s the mental exercise of debating an idea. More consensus-oriented personality types rarely appreciate the vigor with which these personalities tear down their beliefs and methods, sometimes leading to a great deal of tension.
- **Insensitive** – Being so rational, ENTPs often misjudge others’ feelings and push their debates well past others’ tolerance levels. People with this personality type don’t really consider emotional points to be valid in such debates either, which magnifies the issue tremendously.
- **Intolerant** – Unless people are able to back up their ideas in a round of mental sparring, ENTPs are likely to dismiss not just the ideas but the people themselves. Either a suggestion can stand up to rational scrutiny, or it’s not worth bothering with.
- **Can Find It Difficult to Focus** – The same flexibility that allows ENTP personalities to come up with such original plans and ideas makes them readapt perfectly good ones far too often or to even drop them entirely as the initial excitement wanes and newer thoughts come along. Boredom comes too easily for these active types, and fresh thoughts are the solution, though not always a helpful one.
- **Dislike Practical Matters** – ENTPs, with their preference for spontaneity and novelty, often struggle with organization, structure, and all things practical. People with this personality type are interested in what could be – malleable concepts like ideas and plans that can be adapted and debated. When it comes to hard details and day-to-day execution, these personalities tend to lose interest, often with the consequence of their plans never seeing the light of day.