*Imaginative and strategic thinkers, with a plan for everything.*
# Introduction

INTJ (Architect) is a personality type with the [Introverted](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/energy-introverted-vs-extraverted), [Intuitive](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/mind-intuitive-vs-observant), [Thinking](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/nature-thinking-vs-feeling), and [Judging](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/tactics-judging-vs-prospecting) traits. These thoughtful tacticians love perfecting the details of life, applying creativity and rationality to everything they do. Their inner world is often a private, complex one.

# Strengths

- **Rational** – People with the INTJ personality type (Architects) pride themselves on the power of their mind. They can reframe nearly any challenge as an opportunity to hone their rational thinking skills and expand their knowledge – and with this mindset, they can devise inventive solutions to even the most arduous of problems.
- **Informed** – Few personality types are as devoted as INTJs to developing rational, correct, and evidence-based opinions. Rather than hunches or half-baked assumptions, they base their conclusions on research and analysis. This gives them the conviction that they need to stand up for their ideas, even in the face of disagreement.
- **Independent** – For people with this personality type, conformity is more or less synonymous with mediocrity. Creative and self-motivated, INTJs strive to do things their own way. They can imagine few things more frustrating than allowing arbitrary rules or conventions to stand in the way of their success. Moreover, they are happy to make decisions without outside input or opinions. These individuals prefer to take matters into their own hands.
- **Determined** – This personality type is known for being ambitious and goal-oriented. INTJs won’t rest until they’ve achieved their own definition of success – which usually entails mastering the subjects and pursuits that matter to them. They are not known for taking the easy way out. They feel that the only way to achieve greatness is to face challenges head on.
- **Curious** – INTJs are open to new ideas – as long as those ideas are rational and evidence based, that is. Skeptical by nature, people with this personality type are especially drawn to offbeat or contrarian points of view. And if the facts prove them wrong, these types are generally happy to revise their opinions.
- **Original** – Without INTJs, the world would be a far less interesting place. This personality type’s rebellious streak is responsible for some of history’s most unconventional ideas and inventions. Even in their everyday lives, these personalities force the people around them to consider new (and sometimes surprising) ways of looking at things.

# Weaknesses

- **Arrogant** – INTJs might be knowledgeable, but they’re not infallible. Their self-assurance can blind them to useful input from other people – especially anyone they deem to be intellectually inferior. These personalities can also come across as needlessly harsh or single-minded in trying to prove others wrong.
- **Dismissive of Emotions** – For this type, rationality is king. But emotional context often matters more than people with this personality type care to admit. INTJs can get impatient with anyone who seems to value feelings more than facts. Unfortunately, ignoring emotion is its own type of bias – one that can cloud this personality type’s judgment.
- **Overly Critical** – These personalities tend to have a great deal of self-control, particularly when it comes to thoughts and feelings. When the people in their lives fail to match their level of restraint, INTJs can appear scathingly critical. But this criticism can be unfair – based on arbitrary standards rather than a full understanding of human nature.
- **Combative** – People with this personality type hate blindly following anything without understanding why. This includes restrictions and the authority figures who impose them. INTJs can get caught up in arguing about useless rules and regulations – but sometimes these battles are distractions from more important matters.
- **Socially Clueless** – INTJs’ relentless rationality can lead to frustration in their social lives. Their efforts to defy expectations may leave them feeling isolated or disconnected from other people. At times, these personalities may become cynical about the value of relationships altogether, questioning the importance of love and connection.