*Very dedicated and warm protectors, always ready to defend their loved ones.*
# Introduction

ISFJ (Defender) is a personality type with the [Introverted](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/energy-introverted-vs-extraverted), [Observant](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/mind-intuitive-vs-observant), [Feeling](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/nature-thinking-vs-feeling), and [Judging](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/tactics-judging-vs-prospecting) traits. These people tend to be warm and unassuming in their own steady way. They’re efficient and responsible, giving careful attention to practical details in their daily lives.

# Strengths

- **Supportive** – People with the ISFJ personality type (Defenders) truly enjoy helping others, and they happily share their knowledge, attention, and expertise with anyone who needs it. ISFJs strive for win-win situations, choosing teamwork over competition whenever possible.
- **Reliable** – Rather than working in sporadic, excited bursts that leave things half finished, ISFJ personalities are meticulous and careful. They take a steady approach, ensuring that things are done to the highest standard – often going well beyond what is required. Further, most ISFJs agree that sustaining discipline and reliability becomes easier with time.
- **Observant** – ISFJ personalities have a talent for noticing things, particularly about other people. They pay attention to the smallest details of what someone says and does, giving them unexpected insights into other people’s lives and emotions.
- **Enthusiastic** – When the goal is right, ISFJs apply all of their gifts to something that they believe will make a real, positive difference in people’s lives – whether that’s fighting poverty with a global initiative or simply making a customer’s day at work.
- **Hardworking** – ISFJs don’t just get their work done – they take pride in going above and beyond all of their tasks and responsibilities. People with this personality type often form an emotional attachment to the projects and organizations that they’ve dedicated themselves to, and they won’t rest until they’ve done their share – or more than their share – to be of help.
- **Good Practical Skills** – The ISFJ personality type offers the rare combination of an altruistic nature and hard-won practicality. They don’t just hope to help others. They take action – meaning that they’re more than happy to roll up their sleeves and do what’s necessary to care for their friends, family, and anyone else who needs it.

# Weaknesses

- **Overly Humble** – ISFJs are so concerned with other people’s feelings that they may refuse to make their thoughts known or to take any duly earned credit for their contributions. They often downplay their efforts entirely when they think that they could have done some minor aspect of a task better.
- **Taking Things Personally** – Although they might try to hide it, people with this personality type are deeply sensitive to others’ opinions, and they can be thrown off-balance if someone doesn’t appreciate, approve of, or agree with them. When they encounter criticism or disagreement – even if it’s well-intentioned – ISFJs may feel as if they’re experiencing a personal attack.
- **Repressing Their Feelings** – Private and reserved, ISFJ personalities tend to internalize their feelings, particularly negative ones. This can create misunderstandings in their relationships. Eventually, all of their repressed feelings and resentments may boil over in a sudden, uncharacteristic outburst of frustration.
- **Reluctant to Change** – ISFJs are among the personality types that struggle the most with change. Breaking with tradition isn’t easy for these steady personalities, who place great value on history and precedent. Even when change is necessary, they may wait until the situation reaches a breaking point before altering course.
- **Too Altruistic** – ISFJs’ giving, generous nature can leave them vulnerable to being taken advantage of by others. It can be hard for them to rock the boat and stand up to someone who isn’t pulling their own weight. In fact, ISFJs are the most likely personality type to say they would rather clean up someone else’s mess than confront them about it directly.